Python/NavigatingPip.md, before:

# Navigating PIP 

#### Author : Sudeshna Bora 

In the previous article (about [conda](https://github.com/SudeshnaBora/Knowledge-Bucket/blob/main/Python/NavigatingConda.md)) we spoke about <b>conda</b> as a package 
and environment manager, this article discusses <b>pip</b> , an alternative of conda for package management. 

### What is pip ?

As we already know, pip is the official package manager of python. 
It usually comes packaged with a python distribution but can be installed also. 

The command to install a package is 

```
pip install [options] <package_name>
```

When we install a package , it is usually installed in the ```site-packages``` folder of the current python. 
Putting it in the site-packages makes it easy to import the package by the ```import``` command.


### Important pip commands

#### Installing a package

The first command we need to know is installing a package. 

```
pip install <package_name>
```
This command fetches the sdist, wheel from pypi and copies it into the site-packages. 
However, pip can be used to install packages from source tools (vcs) , local folders , requirement files etc. 

---

#### Installing a package in development mode

This requires special mention as I found a use case of it in my life.

Whenever we are installing something, the files get copied into ```site-packages```. 
Post that if we make any changes on this package (that has been installed) it won't be reflected unless you upgrade or uninstall and reinstall the new version.
This is ok for packages that are mature. 
But what about when you are developing a distribution ? 
In that case we would need to keep on repeatedly update and check. 

The easy way to do it is <b>development</b> mode or <b>-e</b> mode.
What it does is it creates a symlink of this folder (the folder of the package which we are developing) path and stores it into the python path's site-packages. 

Let us understand this with the following example. 

We have cloned this particular repository called [brian2](https://github.com/brian-team/brian2).
We would be developing this package and would also like to check it as a module. 
For this we will follow the following steps. 

##### Step 1 : Install the package from the cloned folder in development mode

```
pip install -e brian2
```
##### Step 2 : Check where the package is cloned 

This can be checked as : 

```
pip show brian2
```
This gives us a status 

```
Name: Brian2
Version: 2.1.3.1+git
Summary: A clock-driven simulator for spiking neural networks
Home-page: http://www.briansimulator.org/
Author: Marcel Stimberg, Dan Goodman, Romain Brette
Author-email: team@briansimulator.org
License: UNKNOWN
Location: /home/subora/Documents/github_repository/brian2cuda/frozen_repos/brian2
Requires: numpy, sympy, pyparsing, jinja2, py-cpuinfo, setuptools
Required-by: 
```

If we look into the ```Location``` we see that the path is ```/home/subora/Documents/github_repository/brian2cuda/frozen_repos/brian2``` which is the path of
the cloned repository. 

However , if look into ```pip show numpy``` , it gives 

```
Name: numpy
Version: 1.16.5
Summary: NumPy is the fundamental package for array computing with Python.
Home-page: https://www.numpy.org
Author: Travis E. Oliphant et al.
Author-email: None
License: BSD
Location: /home/subora/anaconda3/envs/b2c/lib/python2.7/site-packages
Requires: 
Required-by: tables, statsmodels, seaborn, scikit-learn, PyWavelets, patsy, pandas, numexpr, numba, mkl-random, mkl-fft, matplotlib, imageio, h5py, Bottleneck, bokeh, bkcharts, astropy, Brian2

```
the location inside ```site-packages``` where the folder is copied from pypi. 

##### Step 3 : Go into site-packages of your python distribution.

Once inside the ```site-packages``` folder, look for the package you installed ```find . | egrep Brian2.*``` .
We see that there is a file called ```Brian2.egg-link```

##### Step 4 : See the contents of <module>.egg-link
  
It has a single line 

```
/home/subora/Documents/github_repository/brian2cuda/frozen_repos/brian2

```

This is nothing but the symlink connecting this entity to the actual folder.
Thus, when we later update this folder, it will be auto updated.

---

#### Listing packages installed 

```
pip list
```
These lists all packages installed. 

#### Show all packages installed by pip

```
pip freeze [-l]
```

The ```-l``` is used to list only those packages which are present in the local environment versus the global environment.
We can export these modules into a requirements.txt file by 

```
pip freeze >requirements.txt
```

This can be later used to be installed by ```pip install``` in a fresh environment.

#### Show information about specific package

```
pip show <package_name>
```

#### Uninstalling a package

```
pip uninstall
```

Commit message:

Add comment for pip install in development mode

Python/NavigatingPip.md, after:

# Navigating PIP 

#### Author : Sudeshna Bora 

In the previous article (about [conda](https://github.com/SudeshnaBora/Knowledge-Bucket/blob/main/Python/NavigatingConda.md)) we spoke about <b>conda</b> as a package 
and environment manager, this article discusses <b>pip</b> , an alternative of conda for package management. 

### What is pip ?

As we already know, pip is the official package manager of python. 
It usually comes packaged with a python distribution but can be installed also. 

The command to install a package is 

```
pip install [options] <package_name>
```

When we install a package , it is usually installed in the ```site-packages``` folder of the current python. 
Putting it in the site-packages makes it easy to import the package by the ```import``` command.


### Important pip commands

#### Installing a package

The first command we need to know is installing a package. 

```
pip install <package_name>
```
This command fetches the sdist, wheel from pypi and copies it into the site-packages. 
However, pip can be used to install packages from source tools (vcs) , local folders , requirement files etc. 

---

#### Installing a package in development mode

This requires special mention as I found a use case of it in my life.

Whenever we are installing something, the files get copied into ```site-packages```. 
Post that if we make any changes on this package (that has been installed) it won't be reflected unless you upgrade or uninstall and reinstall the new version.
This is ok for packages that are mature. 
But what about when you are developing a distribution ? 
In that case we would need to keep on repeatedly update and check. 

The easy way to do it is <b>development</b> mode or <b>-e</b> mode.
What it does is it creates a symlink of this folder (the folder of the package which we are developing) path and stores it into the python path's site-packages. 

Let us understand this with the following example. 

We have cloned this particular repository called [brian2](https://github.com/brian-team/brian2).
We would be developing this package and would also like to check it as a module. 
For this we will follow the following steps. 

##### Step 1 : Install the package from the cloned folder in development mode

A important point (albeit intuitive) is that to do pip install in development mode , please be inside that github project. 
```
pip install -e brian2
```
##### Step 2 : Check where the package is cloned 

This can be checked as : 

```
pip show brian2
```
This gives us a status 

```
Name: Brian2
Version: 2.1.3.1+git
Summary: A clock-driven simulator for spiking neural networks
Home-page: http://www.briansimulator.org/
Author: Marcel Stimberg, Dan Goodman, Romain Brette
Author-email: team@briansimulator.org
License: UNKNOWN
Location: /home/subora/Documents/github_repository/brian2cuda/frozen_repos/brian2
Requires: numpy, sympy, pyparsing, jinja2, py-cpuinfo, setuptools
Required-by: 
```

If we look into the ```Location``` we see that the path is ```/home/subora/Documents/github_repository/brian2cuda/frozen_repos/brian2``` which is the path of
the cloned repository. 

However , if look into ```pip show numpy``` , it gives 

```
Name: numpy
Version: 1.16.5
Summary: NumPy is the fundamental package for array computing with Python.
Home-page: https://www.numpy.org
Author: Travis E. Oliphant et al.
Author-email: None
License: BSD
Location: /home/subora/anaconda3/envs/b2c/lib/python2.7/site-packages
Requires: 
Required-by: tables, statsmodels, seaborn, scikit-learn, PyWavelets, patsy, pandas, numexpr, numba, mkl-random, mkl-fft, matplotlib, imageio, h5py, Bottleneck, bokeh, bkcharts, astropy, Brian2

```
the location inside ```site-packages``` where the folder is copied from pypi. 

##### Step 3 : Go into site-packages of your python distribution.

Once inside the ```site-packages``` folder, look for the package you installed ```find . | egrep Brian2.*``` .
We see that there is a file called ```Brian2.egg-link```

##### Step 4 : See the contents of <module>.egg-link
  
It has a single line 

```
/home/subora/Documents/github_repository/brian2cuda/frozen_repos/brian2

```

This is nothing but the symlink connecting this entity to the actual folder.
Thus, when we later update this folder, it will be auto updated.

---

#### Listing packages installed 

```
pip list
```
These lists all packages installed. 

#### Show all packages installed by pip

```
pip freeze [-l]
```

The ```-l``` is used to list only those packages which are present in the local environment versus the global environment.
We can export these modules into a requirements.txt file by 

```
pip freeze >requirements.txt
```

This can be later used to be installed by ```pip install``` in a fresh environment.

#### Show information about specific package

```
pip show <package_name>
```

#### Uninstalling a package

```
pip uninstall
```
